On the cities of the Industrialists

Ever since I got deeper into the vast Lore of Oddworld, I always wondered about
the daily life of the creatures, who inhabit this strange place. Since the games
never really touched on this subject, there is hardly any information released
on them, but using what little there is available, it's still fun to speculate.

DISCLAIMER: What you read here is mostly speculation, sprinkled with a few
facts. The information referenced from interviews are the closest we have to a
greater Oddworld canon, so I handle them as canon.

http://oddworldlibrary.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/nolybab.png

First things first, how do these cities look? Lanning describes these(1) as vast
underground cities that go deep into the planet's crust. The inhabitants, who
are described as "the parasites, fleas in suits and ties, tape-worms with
lapels" need a damp place to survive as opposed to our planet Earth, Oddworld is
a mostly dry planet.

http://oddworldlibrary.net/oddblog/specials/images/thumbs/AbeComp166.jpg

I speculate that because of this, the entire city is upside down compared to our
standards. The lowly workers and other creatures - think non-slave Mudokons and
perhaps Sligs - live in the top levels, where it's relatively dry and hot, this
place would be the closest to what we find normal. As their eyes don't work too
well in natural lighting(2) below these surface dwelling creatures, where the
Oddworldian star's light doesn't reach and only artificial light break the
darkness, live the not-so-fortunate Glukkons and other small-time business
owners. And instead of having their offices in skyscrapers, the big fish of the
Oddworldian megacorporations have their offices as deep as they can afford,
where it's comfortably wet and dark, with every queen having her own turf, which
she fiercely defends. And even below them breathtakingly deep, dwell the most
influential creatures of the Industrialists, the Investors and major
Khanzumerz(3). These creatures have been described as gargantuan monstrosities,
who could easily wreck havoc, if they weren't appeased with the products the
Glukkons provided them.

Presumably similarly to how their factories work, these cities are littered with
vending machines for nearly everything one can imagine. And even if you could
avoid these taking all your Moolah, you are constantly bump into shady beings
trying to rip you off by offering questionable products at a "very good price".
The streets are filled with cars and other vehicles, flying at incredible speed.
Jaywalking almost always result in death, so few try.  In my headcanon, a
creature rarely leaves the level it's living on, as you can find everything you
want (and of course afford) there and going to a lower level would increase the
chances of you running into someone you'd find quite unpleasant.
 
Since everything is corporationalized, crime on higher levels would be
prevalent, meaning the meeker, weaker or poorer inhabitants would rarely step
out of their homes at night. The few, who roam the streets in the late hours try
their best to mug whomever they can. On the lower levels, you would enjoy
greater safety, as long as you're not someone important. In a cutthroat world
like Oddworld, the heads of companies use heavily armored cars or when using
them is not applicable, employ a dozen bodyguards, who - for the right price -
constantly guard them whenever they need to step out their offices. On the
lowest levels, even the deadliest rivals put their differences aside and pull
their necks in, not to provoke the Khanzumerz and die a gruesome and quick
death.

All in all, if I had to describe these cities with a metaphor, I'd say they're
similar to fruits, who from the outside look perfect, but inside they rot and
are infested with worms. 

Expect to find anything you want, but also everything you don't.

---

(1) http://oddworldlibrary.net/blog/nathan-interviews-lorne-lanning-again/ - "So
we have these craters, and then out of these huge shells of collapsed earth that
go down thousands of feet, they?ve built cities. When you?re looking across the
landscape, you can see just the tips of cities coming out of these craters. But
they?re not craters so much as large pockets."

(2) https://magogonthemarch.com/oddworld-history/ - "Over the course of the many
years that ensued, their eyes became incapable of dealing with natural light."

(3) http://oddworldlibrary.net/blog/nathan-interviews-lorne-lanning-again/ -
"There are scenes in the film I want to do where Mullock, after he fucked up and
he?s being taken to the boss and he passes his mom who says ?You blew it,? and
he has to go down and meet the investors. They live underground; like how I said
about how the world is separated. He takes an elevator ride down 1700 storeys
and a little midget guys picks you up as an escort, but as you go down and the
temperature increases, they?re getting bigger and bigger, while the security
guards from up above are dying and sweltering from the heat."
