A few interesting things cut from the games

=== Exoddus ===

- "Mudombies"(1) 

Abe's Exoddus would have originally featured zombified Mudokons, whom Abe would
have needed to lead to their resting place. Presumably we would have encountered
them in the jungles of Necrum or in the Vaults. My guess as for why they were
cut is that presumably they wouldn't have been too different compared to
'normal' Mudokons and the disk space was scarce.

- Elum (2)

If you rescued all 300 Mudokons, Abe would have had the chance to venture back
into the ruins of RuptureFarms to rescue the Elum and then they would have made
a big escape from the still-smouldering facility.

=== Munch's Oddysee ===

- Social status (3)
 
At one point in development, back when MO was still planned to be a much more
grandious game, it was planned that each character you meet would have a certain
social status, which you could manipulate. Lanning explains it through the
example of a Slig: Basically if you possess a Slig who is "nobody" (that is he
has cheap equipment), no one will take him seriously and certain areas won't
open up to you, until you manage to upgrade your possessed character's status.
Also characters would have regarded eachother differently. The GameSpeak would
still have just one button for "Greetings", but your character would have said
different things to different characters. The aforementioned Slig for example
would have just simply yelled at a Mudokon when you pressed the button, but if
you encountered a Glukkon, your Slig would have immediately became as polite as
they possibly can. This entire feature was sadly cut from the game.

- Lulu's original journey (3)

While the basic concept is mostly unchanged, Lulu was supposed to go through a
much more exciting path to become a Glockstar. Munch and Abe would have a lot
more to directly do with him, unlike in the finished game where he is possessed
once and that's it. He would have been a lowly Pud (the 'rank' of the least
successful Glukkons) in a small meat packing factory, where his boss, a Glukkon
named Sask, would have threatened him that if he doesn't do his job and
slaughter a few Scrabs for their meat, he would be fired. From this point, it's
your job to make the best of the situation. You could have either done it as you
were asked and butcher the animals, which which would have resulted in negative
Quarma. Or you could have chosen a similarly brutal (albeit for some reason more
positive) way of dealing with the problem and murder a bunch of unsuspecting
Sligs who were having a picnic nearby for their meat. This way you would have
also made some scrap metal which would have made Lulu's boss very happy. By
doing enough errands in Lulu's name, he would have quickly been promoted to the
top and as a Glockstar, he would have gained access to Vykkers Labs and by
exploiting him Abe and Munch could have got Sam (by the original plans, we would
have met the Mudokon queen in this game) and the Gabbiar out safely.

- "RTS" (4)

Another really ambitious idea was that Abe was supposed to be able to direct
entire factories by possessing their leading Glukkons. This way you could have
affected the Industrialists on a major scale. Also the terrain around you would
have been dynamic and your choices could have changed them into becoming
healthier or more polluted.

- Abe and Munch's disfunctional partnership, Roid

One might notice that Munch and Abe become friends incredibly quickly and
without any fanfare in Munch's Oddysee. Originally this would have been largely
different. One of the first designs of Munch was a tapeworm, that Abe
regurgiated any time he needed him. This was quickly scrapped and replaced with
something more akin to what we got in the final version, but it would have been
lot less about the duo cooperating and more about Abe carrying Munch around on a
wheelchair, with him having no word about where they should go. Also at one
point it was planned that Munch would have - after all the experiments done on
him by the Vykkers - developed a kind of Mr. Hyde like personality, which would
have manifested as a mindless, hulking, muscle-bound beast called Roid. And the
'best' part is to call upon this creature Abe would have punched and beat Munch
until he went mental.

===

(1) https://magogonthemarch.com/designer-diaries/abes-exoddus-designer-diaryvideogames-com/

(2) https://twitter.com/OddworldInc/status/1026744486079160320

(3) https://magogonthemarch.com/status-and-power-oddworld-isnt-so-odd-anymore/

(4) https://magogonthemarch.com/an-interview-with-lorne-lanning/
