THE IGN SOULSTORM GAMEPLAY SEGMENT

Two days after the first E3 interview, we got to see a much longer segment of
Oddworld: Soulstorm. The video contains most of the scenes we saw in the
previous trailer, so I would rather focus on things that we haven't seen
previously. In case you're out of the loop, you can read my previous writeup
<here>.

- As I've previously theorized, Abe really does arrive using that train to the
  level.

- We get to see more of the UI in the form of help-bubbles and a screen
  explaining the mission objective to us.

- Abe runs past a pair of binoculars. The help-text explains, that it can be
  used to survey the rest of the level and to shoot darts. As seen previously,
  these darts can be used to knock out Sligs. I'm not a hundred percent sure
  whether this is lethal or non-lethal, but personally I'm inclined to think
  it won't kill them.

- Since levels now have multiple levels of depth, doors were reimagined to be
  short-distance teleporters, that beam Abe from one place to another using
  lightning bolts.

- Right after Abe leaves the teleporter-door, we see a familiar old poster
  advertising Gum Rot. The poster also has a Fuzzle on it, which likely means
  that they're still canon and perhaps even part of the game.

- To visually convey Mudokons join Abe, they now have little yellow hardhats,
  that they throw away, when Abe calls to them. This new gamespeak is a bit
  confusing to me. There appears to be a green, a yellow and a red way of
  interacting with the Mudokons, however, I am not sure what the yellow one
  does.

- Abe calls to the Mudokon and we can see a small yellow shine appear and fly
  into him. This is how Quarma is represented now. Later we'll see how negative
  Quarma looks like.

- We then get to see possession. I have to say, my opinion about it is mixed.
  While the graphical effect beats miles on New 'n' Tasty's "Mandala", it's
  still far less iconic compared to Oddysee's and Exoddus' blue spirit balls. I
  especially dislike the possession orb, which looks way out of the place and
  when it possesses the unfortunate Slig, it doesn't even look like it's
  "invading the mind" or something, rather just makes a quick lap around it and
  it's done.

- Possession is now time limited. I'm not sure whether I like this or not yet,
  so I'm reserving judgement. Also as the devs explained previously, you may
  have the choice to either gib or just knock out your target.

- Abe picks up a "Royal Jelly". For those who might not know, Royal Jelly in
  real life is a kind of substance bees and other hive-creatures feed to those
  larvae, who are destined to be queens. This causes changes in their bodies and
  makes reproduction possible. However, as we can see here it just increases
  Abe's max health. Even so, I'm curious about the implications. As we know
  there is at least one Mudokon queen, Sam, who is held captive by the Vykkers
  and Glukkons. Maybe Abe is collecting this for her or to create a new queen.

- The player uses a jawbreaker enveloped in rubber bands to knock out a Slig,
  who's holding a lever, not letting him proceed. The non-lethal take down nets
  Abe one Quarma.

- Abe and his Muds board a "Content Delivery Cannon", which lets them travel
  between layers of the map.

- As they arrive at the next layer, we can observe Abe breaking some boxes by
  striking them with his hands. Perhaps in a time of great need melee is an
  option too?

- Abe murders the Slig by possession in cold blood, netting him a large sum of
  negative Quarma. This ain't Exoddus anymore, killing Sligs is now undesirable.
  Unless of course you want to achieve the bad ending.

- Abe calls a large number of Mudokons to himself, who leave their workplaces.
  The alarm immediately goes to Medium, which means that the Slig Guard Posts
  will start spawning them.

- By throwing multiple "Fizzy PoPs" the player can destroy fragile floors and
  walls, without starting a fire.

- A Slig gets possessed and by triggering the little bell above the guard post,
  another Slig is spawned, who is then perforated. This results in a huge hit of
  negative Quarma, which is represented by many black blotches flying into Abe.

- Abe continues his rampage using the Slig, until he is dispatched. Afterwards
  he crafts a flamethrower, whose recipe has changed since EGX 2017.

- With the flamethrower, he kills many Sligs. Amusingly, death by fire only
  gives Abe 7 negative Quarma.

- It is shown that you can ring guard post bells with Abe's throwables too, like
  jawbreakers.

- In the final scene we see Abe and the Mudokons trying to avoid a train flying
  past them, however, they fail. But before we could see them being gibbed, the
  camera fades to show Lorne Lanning and the interviewer again.
